Last week was awesome.
We focused on the process of
preparing data
using pivot tables,
And then we saw how
we could visualize
that data using pivot charts.
But having these charts
scattered around
our workbook doesn't tell
a very cohesive story.
That's true. This week,
we're going to look at how
to put it all together
and create an
attractive dashboard.
This will partly serve
as a practical approach
to creating dashboards in Excel,
but I also want to use
it as an opportunity to
practice many of the topics
from earlier in this course.
A dashboard is a great tool for
information management and
business intelligence.
It allows us to store and
display important
information from
multiple data sources in
one ease to access place.
But most people have
never created one.
Nikki, what makes
a good dashboard?
Well, an effective
dashboard should be
striking, but visually balanced,
user-friendly, and
tailored to your goals,
as well as your audience.
What are your top tips
for achieving this?
Most importantly, start
with a clear goal in mind.
Then make sure you choose
the right metrics and
provide good context
for those metrics.
Give some consideration
to colors and layout,
and make sure you use the
right visualizations.
This may require
a few iterations.
Where possible, provide
interactive elements
and remember more is less.
We need it to fit
onto a single screen
or single sheet and
not feel crowded.
Getting down to the mechanics,
we've collected our data,
cleaned and consolidated it,
and created a mix
of useful metrics.
We're ready for
that cherry on top,
but where to begin?
I would recommend starting
with wire framing.
That's the process of
designing the layout.
This will let you get feedback,
but it will also give you a
chance to focus on the flow.
For example, if your
audience read left to right,
you need to dashboard
to flow left to right.
You need to make sure
that you've sequenced
the most important
things near the top,
and you need to make sure that
related items are
close to each other.
Now, there are a lot of wire
framing tools out there.
Any that you would recommend?
Actually, pens on paper,
or whiteboard and markers.
They're the best options
because they free you up from
the technical limitations
of your tools
and they actually encourage
you to think visually.
Very important that we have
a design in place first.
Now, we're ready to
create our dashboard.
It can be tricky getting
all our column widths and
row heights just right.
I agree. Another approach
and one I would
generally recommend
is to just use image objects
like shapes and charts,
that actually sit
above the cells.
But what if we need to show
numeric values,
sparklines or tables?
Well, in Week 1, we saw how we
could link shapes to
values in a cell,
so we'll recap that.
But we'll also look at
another great feature
which allows us to
paste a selection of
cells as a linked image.
This will work for
sparklines, tables,
and basically means you
end up with an image that
will change when the
original data changes.
We've got our great graphics and
key metrics all nicely laid out.
How can we add
interactive elements?
Well, probably the most
important option is to allow
users to specify what data
values they need to see,
and for that, we're
going to use slices.
Slices allow us to filter
data and we'll look at
how we can link them
to multiple sources and
customize them to fit in with
the look of our dashboard.
We're also going to look at
working with simple
macros to allow
users to refresh pivots and
even change the color scheme.
Love it. One last thing.
We need to be careful
of not ramming
too much information
into one sheet.
Does Excel have a
facility to allow us
to drill down if we
need more detail?
Well, not in the way
that some tools do,
but the great thing about
Excel is its flexibility.
We're just going to build
a second dashboard and
employ simple hyperlinks to
facilitate that drill-down.
Everyone, it's our last week,
but we're going to
finish on a high,
designing our own
stunning dashboard,
adding charts and
other visualizations,
adding interactive
components, and
finish it off with
macros and hyperlinks.
The practice challenge calls
a few additional options
like protection,
so check that out.
We also have another
creative corner.
Please contribute
your fabulous ideas
to the community and
don't forget to give a like to
other people's projects
that inspire you.
Make a point of
revisiting any topics
you're unsure of before you
attempt the final assessment,
which will assess the
full course content.
From me and Nikki,
all the best for your
future Excel endeavors.